[Add-ins](Debugging) Add article on VS Code Debugging Extension (#1850)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/debug-with-vs-extension.md

---
title: Visual Studio Code Debugger Extension for Office Add-ins
description: 'Use a VS Code extension to debug your Office add-in.'
ms.date: 05/14/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Visual Studio Code Debugger Extension for Office Add-ins

> The Visual Studio Debugger Extension for Office Add-ins allows you to use F5 in VS Code to debug your Office Add-in against the Edge runtime. This debugging mode is dynamic, allowing you to set breakpoints while code is running. You can see changes in your code immediately while the debugger is attached, all without losing your debugging session. Your code changes also persist, so you can see the results of multiple changes to your code. The following image shows this extension in action.

Reviewer: Question about "code changes also persist": Does this mean your mid-debugging edits are saved? Would users expect this to not be the case? Maybe it's just the phrasing, but the line comes across as marketing the save feature, so I'm not sure it's needed (of course, this is dependent on other dynamic debugger behavior).

> The Visual Studio Debugger Extension for Office Add-ins allows you to use F5 in VS Code to debug your Office Add-in against the Edge runtime. This debugging mode is dynamic, allowing you to set breakpoints while code is running. You can see changes in your code immediately while the debugger is attached, all without losing your debugging session. Your code changes also persist, so you can see the results of multiple changes to your code. The following image shows this extension in action.

Reviewer 2: Always good to have a lead-in sentence for an art image (or a caption, in some cases) for visually impaired people who use screen readers. They can't see the image so they do need a description.

> ![VS Code Debugger Extension debugging a section of Excel Add-ins](../images/vs-debugger-extension-for-office-addins.jpg)

Reviewer: Not that it really matters, but why is this a .jpg instead of a .png?

## Pre-Requisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (must be run as an administrator)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge)
- [Yo Office](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office)

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

## Install and use

> 1. [Create a new project with the latest version of Yo Office](https://docs.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery?tabs=yeomangenerator). Follow the prompts within the command line to set up your project. You can choose any language or type of project to suit your needs.

Reviewer: Consider using a relative link here:
```suggestion
1. [Create a new project with the latest version of Yo Office](../quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery.md?tabs=yeomangenerator). Follow the prompts within the command line to set up your project. You can choose any language or type of project to suit your needs.
```

> 2. Open a command prompt as administrator

Reviewer: Missing period at the end of a longer bullet point.
```suggestion
2. Open a command prompt as administrator.
```

   ![Command prompt options, including "run as administrator" in Windows 10](../images/run-as-administrator-vs-code.jpg)

3. Navigate to your project directory.

4. Run the following command to open your project in Visual Studio Code as an administrator.

> ```command line

Reviewer: Didn't we have to do something special for the space? This is rendering fine on the review site, so maybe that's fixed.
```suggestion
```command&nbsp;line
```

code .
```

Once Visual Studio Code is open, navigate manually to the project folder.

> > [!TIP]

Reviewer: Consider flipping the tip and the preceding line, so the instructions for running as an admin are closer to the command to run.

> > To open Visual Studio Code as an administrator, select the **run as administrator** option when opening Visual Studio Code from the Start Menu in Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To open Visual Studio Code as an administrator, select the **Run as administrator** option when opening Visual Studio Code from the Start Menu in Windows.
```

> > To open Visual Studio Code as an administrator, select the **run as administrator** option when opening Visual Studio Code from the Start Menu in Windows.

Reviewer: This is a super minor point, but I don't get the **Run as administrator** option when navigating through the Start Menu. I only get it when using the search by the Start Menu. I don't think this distinction will confuse users, but I wanted to share.

Author: Good catch. I will specify that it shows up if you search.

> 5. Within VS Code, select **CTRL + SHIFT + X** to open the Extensions bar. Search for the "VS Code Debugger for Office Add-ins" extension and install it.

Reviewer: The [MS style guide recommends sentence-style casing](https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2700&topicid=27401) for key names and doesn't use spaces.
```suggestion
5. Within VS Code, select **Ctrl+Shift+X** to open the Extensions bar. Search for the "VS Code Debugger for Office Add-ins" extension and install it.
```

> 6. In the .vscode folder of your project, you will find a launch.json file. At the end of the file, add the following code to the configurations section of the file.

Reviewer: Suggestion to make this more action-oriented.
```suggestion
6. In the .vscode folder of your project, open the **launch.json** file. Add the following code to the `configurations` section:
```

```JSON
{
  "type": "office-addin",
  "request": "attach",
  "name": "Attach to Office Add-ins",
  "port": 9222,
  "trace": "verbose",
  "url": "https://localhost:3000/taskpane.html?_host_Info=HOST$Win32$16.01$en-US$$$$0",
  "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}",
  "timeout": 45000
}
```

7. In the section of JSON you just copied, find the "url" section. In this URL, you will need to replace the uppercase HOST text with the host application for your Office add-in. For example, if your Office add-in is for Excel, your URL value would be "https://localhost:3000/taskpane.html?_host_Info=<strong>Excel</strong>$Win32$16.01$en-US$\$\$\$0".

> 8. Open the command prompt and ensure you are at the root folder of your project. Run the command `npm start` to start the dev server. When your add-in loads in Excel, open the task pane.

Reviewer: Consider removing the reference to Excel, since that was just the example in the last section.
```suggestion
8. Open the command prompt and ensure you are at the root folder of your project. Run the command `npm start` to start the dev server. When your add-in loads in the Office client, open the task pane.
```

9. Return to Visual Studio Code and choose **View > Debug** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.

10. From the Debug options, choose **Attach to Office Add-ins**. Select **F5** or choose **Debug -> Start Debugging** from the menu to begin debugging.

11. Set a breakpoint in your project's task pane file. You can set breakpoints in VS Code by hovering next to a line of code and selecting the red circle which appears.

![A red circle appears on a line of code in VS Code](../images/set-breakpoint.jpg)

> 12. Run your add-in. You will see that breakpoints have been hit and you can inspect local variables.

Reviewer: We should add a **See also** section to the end.

---
title: Office Addin Debugger Extension for Visual Studio Code

> description: 'Use the Visual Studio Code extension Office Addin Debugger to debug your Office add-in.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: 'Use the Visual Studio Code extension Office Addin Debugger to debug your Office Add-in.'
```
Also, we need to escalate the name of the debugger... "Office Addin" with no hyphen is inconsistent with our branding, as you know. Can you ask Louis why they did it this way?

ms.date: 05/14/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Office Addin Debugger Extension for Visual Studio Code

The "Office Addin Debugger" Extension for Visual Studio Code allows you to debug your Office Add-in against the Edge runtime.

This debugging mode is dynamic, allowing you to set breakpoints while code is running. You can see changes in your code immediately while the debugger is attached, all without losing your debugging session. Your code changes also persist, so you can see the results of multiple changes to your code. The following image shows this extension in action.

![Office Addin Debugger Extension debugging a section of Excel Add-ins](../images/vs-debugger-extension-for-office-addins.jpg)

> ## Pre-Requisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (must be run as an administrator)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10
- [Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge)

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

> ## Install and use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install and use the debugger
```

1. If you need to create an add-in project, [use the Yo Office generator to create one](https://docs.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery?tabs=yeomangenerator). Follow the prompts within the command line to set up your project. You can choose any language or type of project to suit your needs.

> ![NOTE]

> > If you already have a project, skip this step and move to the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you already have a project, skip step 1 and move to step 2.
```
Clarify which step you're referring to. The previous step or step 2?
